From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number three 79. Recorded live
Thursday, July 4th, 2013. Support for Hanselman.
It is provided by Tellerik
offering the best in developer
tools and support online@telerikdotcomandbyfranklins.net makers
of gesture pack a powerful
gesture, recording and recognition system
for Microsoft connect for windows
developers details. Add gesture, PA
k.com. In this episode, Scott
talks with Dan Bricklin about
the future and past of
computing. I'm Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of Hansel
minutes, and I've got with
me today. Dan Bricklin often
referred to as the father
of the spreadsheet, and you've
seen him before, actually on
this developer's life. I'm happy
to have you here, sir.
How are you? I'm doing
really well. I'm kind of
a sad, a couple of
days here. You probably noticed
that Douglas ankle Bart passed
away. Yeah. I just saw
that and started watching some
of the old videos and
I looked at old pictures.
I found an old picture
of me with him and
con and Bob Metcalf. Wow.
But then I saw that
Mark Bernstein posted a picture
of Ted Nelson with him
and Aaron Schwartz. Wow. It's really
cool. Ted also helped popularize
to the next generation hypertext.
Yeah, these are, these are
the, kind of the, the,
his history of computing people
that I don't think the
average Joe knows the names
of like, you know, people
don't even know Ted Berners
Lee, Tim Berners Lee, rather,
but they probably couldn't ask
a hundred people and have
them tell you who that
was. Angle bar was no.
On the other hand, they
all know what a mouse
is. Exactly. And he's the
one who made the, got
the first one made and
had reasons and invented the
reasons why we would want
it well. And when I
was watching, cause I think
that if, when, if you
don't know who Douglas Engelbart
is going go and do
the Googling and look it
up, but be sure to
watch the mother of all
demos. It's up on YouTube.
This was in 1968 and
he was doing stuff. And
I was in my mind
trying to do the same
thing with word with Microsoft
word. And I'm watching him
do some editing stuff. And
I'm like, gosh, it's 2013
and I'm not actually sure
how to do that in
word. I mean, he's collapsing,
like, you know, like doing
outlining and he's links and
he's doing was a real
time video conferencing and he
demoed all this lie. Yeah.
He did it live in
1968. He was doing, you
know, line numbering and he
had a headset. I mean,
if it wasn't in black
and white, he could have
been demoing the latest version
of windows. It just happened
to be all texted in
black and white. It was
really quite sophisticated. The mouse
was extremely smooth. Yeah. Well
the fact that they, I
mean, they had, they had
light pins before and stuff
like that, but it wasn't
like that. And you know,
they had the mouse, they
showed two people using the
male simultaneously one in one
room in one, you know,
at a distance. And he's,
you know, and he, I
mean, he was inspired by
Vanderbush before I'm each person's
inspired and then can inspire,
inspire others like Ted Nelson
who wrote the book computer
live that inspired others like
Dave Weiner and who inspired
a lot of people who
got things that we have
today that now inspire the
people who think they're inventing
at all. Sure. If you
remember the video, but he
has his mouse in the
right hand, he has his
keyboard and he has some
kind of a cording hot
key. What is that? On
the left? He was experimenting
with different types of input
devices and the mouse was
one of his experiments, but
he had the cord keyboard
where basically you would push,
you could use multiple fingers
and push one button to,
you know, in different chords.
And that was ways of
being able to type into
the computer. He had what,
that accord keyboard, a mouse
and a real keyboard. And
he was experimenting with different
forms of input. Do you
think that that is representative
of like, like I've got
a, a natural keyboard in
front of me with some
hot keys on top. I've
got the function keys, which
have now been standardized, but
I don't spend a lot
of time other than using
modifiers, like control shift and
alt there's not a lot
of cording in my life.
I guess it turned out
that it was while people
could learn it, it wasn't
something people could come up
with, but they were experimenting
in those days. They were
inventing the things that we
take for granted when we
think is normal. So that's
why, that's why everybody is
making such a big deal
about his life. Because you
know, somebody comes up with
this stuff for the first
time and does the experimentation
and throws out and then
eventually throw out the stuff
that doesn't catch on. Or
we later on, we find
out that maybe now it's
okay to do that. The,
that level of historical context.
I mean, I know he
was in his late eighties
when he passed away a
couple of days ago, but
he must be just watching
these things and both being
excited that they have reached
a ubiquity, but also saying
gosh, 40 years and nothing
really interesting has happened. His
mouse is an idea that
we point to all the
time when you say, well,
how long did it take
and why don't people use
this great new thing right
away? Why don't they get
it? I mean, look how
long it took them to
get Twitter or blogging number.
They made fun of blogging
back in, in 2004 at
the democratic national convention, they
were making fun of the
bloggers. And of course now,
you know, every Twitter we'll
forget about that, but we
look at the males and
we say, Hmm, the mouse
was shown publicly in 1968.
And then it until 1984,
that it got onto a
machine that actually we still
have with us today that
is popular. It was, there
were other mouse, you know,
the Alto and the star
and stuff like that. You
use the mouse, but, and
Lisa, but it wasn't till
1984 with the Macintosh that
it started to become, come
in the normal, into normal
people's consciousness. Now, of course,
you know, and then even
after 84, it wasn't until
what like windows 90, whatever
95 or whatever that it
was like really well accepted
in all of computing, dumb
in person. That's a long
time. It is a long
time. We're talking about 20,
30 years. I remember trying
to teach my family how
to right click and had
a DoubleClick. Like they used
to be tutorials on, have
a success rate, double click.
Cause it's just not enough.
Well, that's, that's why we
need people learning from others.
I think what's in the
markups article. And the times
that mentioned the first mouse
had as many buttons as
he could fit on it.
Obviously with this cord thing,
he was into thinking of
multiple, multiple buttons that have
three buttons on it. And
that's what they used for
a while. They, you have
like a select button in
it. And then, you know,
jobs came in and said,
no, let's make it simple.
We'll just have one button
pretty close. Then you can
only can't push the wrong
button. Or then they had
to come up with the
equivalent, according with double clicking,
flicking and holding, and then
holding down a key and
clicking there, holding down another
key and flipping. So maybe
he wasn't so wrong, but
you know, it was it's
this, each of us add
our own, his jobs at
his stuff to it and
others add to it. And
we end up with what
we have today. I wish
my wife was sorting through
thousands of photographs to put
together a baby book for
my oldest son yesterday. And
I was watching her do
it. I was kind of
watching in a detached way
because wives, I have found
don't like it, if you
snatch the mouse from them
and show them how to
use something. And even though
she's a highly educated and
very successful person in finance
and has an advanced degree,
I, she was struggling just
to have two windows open
and have them appropriately sized.
And then rather than using
the scroll wheel that her
finger was resting on, she
was choosing to go down
and pick the little tiny
eight pixel by eight pixel
down arrow to scroll down.
And I like, gosh, I
thought this was a solved
problem. We can snap two
windows together, like Norton commander,
and we can roll with
her. And I kept showing
her the rolly wheel. And
she says that doesn't work
for me. Yeah. I mean,
especially since some apps that
works in summit doesn't and
of course Apple made it
go upside down, but sometimes
you'll just skip right ahead,
like the touch. But then
if you know, when, when
the original surface Microsoft surface,
the one that was huge,
actually there was a table
and they were doing sorting
a pictures with it. You
could see how that would
work. And now with things
like the Dell XPS 27,
that huge, you know, and
you can sort of pull
it down or the Lenovo
and others that you can
put on the desk. We
now can actually do the
sorting of the pictures that
way, which is more natural.
A flicking motion to just
say, Put this over here,
drag this over here. Let's
put juxtapose these together, put
that in a pile with
the big screens, you know,
maybe the scroll wheel wasn't
the natural thing. Yeah. But
it also gets into simplicity.
A lot of people like
to learn a few tools
and use them. And there
was, was it people like
w like to be able
to say, I have this
general purpose thing, I know
how to use. And it
does all these things for
me. It's why they'll in
the old days where the
accountants would learn a spreadsheet
and then would do word
processing in it. Cause they
don't want to learn a
word processor. They already knew
the spreadsheet and they had
this one tool that was
good enough for them. Sometimes
don't bother me with it.
When you're a programmer programmers
who really get into the
tools you want to have,
what angle Bart had, the
cord that you can, Oh,
if you do what we
call it, we used to
call it the command shift,
Coke bottle. You would push
all this. You would, you
would have all these modifier
keys to use Emacs or
whatever. And now you're showing
off that stuff. When you're,
you're showing off the IDs,
you know, like visual studio,
a programmer learns to have
all these tools. Well, most
people were used to saying,
well, you know, a hammer
screwdriver and you know, a
vice grip is good enough
for me while you know,
a real person who really
needs their tools probably has
boxes. It's huge, you know,
tool chest with many just
the right tool for the
right thing. And that's, that's
an interesting jump. I mean,
I watch people who actually
can dream almost an IMAX,
you know, and be able
to, you know, hitting the
shifts in whatever. I find
it sometimes easier just to
retire because I type fast
enough rather than try to
say, well, what is, you
know, what's the control thing
for backing up two words
and go halfway and you
know, so it's different thinking
for different people. And we
have to remember the different
people do think different ways.
Well, you wrote a famous
essay called why Johnny can't
program, where you kind of
explore those things. And I
was a, an adjunct professor
at a state school teaching
software engineering. And I had
to go to the Dean
and say, this is a
particular fella. Who's just taken
my class. And I just
know I want them to
be successful, but I don't
think he should be a
programmer on that. Let me
rephrase it. Wasn't that? I
don't think he should be.
I just said, I don't
think he could be successful
because I just simply don't
think his brain is wired
that way. And that's the
way just like, you know,
I can't compose good news
brain decisions. Why is it
that an intellectual pursuits like
programming one would say something
like, I don't think it
should be a program. Like,
well, I'm going to be
a program and I'm going
to, you watch me right
through sheer force of will.
I don't think any force
of will is going to
make me Right. Or a
Michael Jordan or that's Michael Jordan. Couldn't
play baseball at the level
of other people. Right. That
he's Michael Jordan. He's probably disappointed
that that was a very
interesting example there, you know,
you know, people who have
incredible wheels still can't necessarily
do it, but sometimes you
can. Yeah. It's programmers. Well,
there's something magic about programmers
to people. They know in
the old days, being a
programmer was such an unusual
skill that they would put
up with all sorts of
personality, strangeness that they wouldn't
put up in other parts
of the same business. Cause
they were so desperate for
which led to advantages that
people who had those personality
traits were now able to
get where we will peg
and drives it couldn't be
before. And not that everybody
had those, but it meant
that if you had those
traits, this is a job
that you could get. And
if you were able to
program at all, you know,
people thought that you were
great or some tools started
coming in that made it
possible, were other types of
people to be able to
program. And then it being
a program where you can
be more likely to be
more normal. Do you think
that those, do you think
those personality types have set
us up such that with
programmers? And I believe that
it's the case that there's,
this there's a program or
glass ceiling. Like if you're
at a company that is
run by business people and
you are not the CTO,
there's this, there's only so
much money you're going to
make as a program or
even as programmer number one,
because ultimately the CEO and
the CXO signs, the checks
isn't that historical like it's
because we used to be,
Well, no, it may be
negotiating and other, you know,
about the position on the
other hand, you know, that
the head of development or
whatever has in their, you
know, their pockets, so to
speak, not being as protection
for themselves, they know who
the super programmer is. And
if they moved to another
company, they would make sure
that they brought that person
along. It's you know, like,
you know, that's, I remember
there was a Steven Seagal
movie where the, the head
of the boards of the
Admiral or whatever had this
Navy seal, he kept with
him all the time. Right.
He knew that's what he
needed. And you know, the
old samurai having the right,
you know, you hire the
right samurai to be there
with you. I'm sure it's
the same, but the pro,
but the pay and the
people outside don't need it.
And often the programmer, you
know, doesn't push for it,
but some do, and we
just don't see those, like
would not be in the
world that many of us
are in. Do you think
that programming should be mysterious
or do you think that
there is a room for
these is modern, you know,
like text boxes over data,
that's a line of business
app, right? It's just a
regular old, real business app.
Like your SAP is and
your Salesforce is, should I
a programmer be writing those?
Or should my wife, someone
who has a deep understanding
of business be writing those?
Well, it depends on what
the application, I mean, I
think that it's people who
are good at what's needed
for the particular application should
write it. So you would
want somebody who knows business
using a spreadsheet, do business
stuff, rather than somebody who
doesn't know business, either using
his spreadsheet or writing it
in C or something like
that, it doesn't understand the
problem. So for a lot
of businesses stuff, we want
the domain expert for games.
You want somebody who has
a feel for both the
gaming, you know, and to
make it, you know, and
you want somebody else to
appeal for the sound and
seeing a feel for the
visuals, as well as somebody
who has a feel for
how to make it work
real fast, feel good. So
there's different skills demanded by
the particular application. So if
you're just talking about filling
in forms and if it's
rarely, it's not used too
much, and it's used by
the same people who know
it, you can get by
with the people who need,
it might as well build
it themselves if they can.
That's why things like the
spreadsheet became so popular. Think
of initially programming was done
by, you know, special people
are likely math PhD, if
they're women initially, and we're
still, they didn't realize where
the, what, you know, the,
the, the people that built
the computers were not considered
the special people and the
people program where it's special
in the old, old, old
days. And then the people
built it where the program
was working, then the programmers
were. And, but then, you
know, cause the programming was
a machine language and then
they invented Fortran and scientists
could write in something that
was kind of mathematical and
mathematical mathematicians could write in
a sort of mathematical language
and get things done. And
Peter, the use of computers
took off a lot. So,
you know, the web took
off when it was, you
could just take Microsoft word
and push a button and
get HTML out of it,
Lousy HTML, but in HTML
and D Yes, no, we
as programmers knew how well
look, how look, how it
takes twice as long to
download on that. On the
other hand, people said, yeah,
here's a, an example that
I remember is I worked
at word processing very early
screen-based word processing back in
mid seventies. And we were
very much consumed by litter
quality printing. We wanted it
to look as good as
a letter typed on a
good typewriter and, you know,
dot matrix printers just couldn't
do it. And so we
didn't Daisy wheel printer. When
I was at DEC digital,
we had to teach the
guys at the envelope about
how to do a better
printer to make it work
better. And so we were
so proud. And then what
did people end up doing?
You know, then there was
the laser printer, the laser
jet. Wow. It looks just
like a typewriter and, or
set. And then people throw
it in fax machines and
it looked like a dot
matrix printer. Again, they didn't
care. They cared about. I
mean, they originally did, but
it was more important for
them to get it there
in time to get it
there immediately. There was some
other things that were more
important to them about the
problem and what we thought
was important suddenly was really
secondary to them. So that's
the same thing. I mean,
you know, we care about,
you know, well-crafted code and
all that, which does matter
for certain things, but it
doesn't always, especially if you
have to get it programmed
quick, I mean, programs that
are available after they're needed
is not a good thing.
If you have a, a
sales, you're gonna have a,
a, you know, a sales
campaign and you want to
support your salespeople with programs
for it, having it the
week after the sales campaign
is over because the programmers
were still working on it
is not a good thing.
You know, you want to,
you know, how long it
takes to get it done
and how good it looks
and all that, the fact
that can't win an award,
you know, it doesn't matter.
There were other things that
were more important. The problem
matters, right? I mean, I
know that last year in
Japan, they sold 2 million fax
machines. Like the world has
left fax machines behind except
Japan. Yeah. It'll be close
to their language. It still
has its advantages for handwritten
stuff. Yeah. They value the
facts between the value of
the paper, the physicality of
it, and the immediacy of
it. And I was in,
when I did the last
few years, I've been doing
programming on the iPad and
I did a note note
taking program called note taker
HD. And they are, people
were doing handwritten notes and
initially it was very popular
among medical students. And that
surprised me, you know, with
all sorts of others later
on. But when I allowed
you to Mark up PDF
files and then all sorts
of people were interested in
it, but medical students are
taking notes that you can't
type and they're taking they're
drawing and they're doing, you
know, and they're doing chemistry
and they're doing this and
that. And if they wanted
to, to use computers, they
needed handwritten. And then it
was, was, was opened up
by having the ability to
do handwriting into kept as
handwriting into the, the iPad,
which is really cool. And
there are all sorts of
areas like that where, you
know, we, we suddenly find
out that computing works for
when we have the right
equipment, the facts worked for
people who want paper and
paper out, you know, and,
you know, it's, it's kind
of easier sometimes than scanning
to a PDF, emailing the
PDF and then printing a
new PDF. How did your,
your, your kind of movement
into mobile workout for you?
I know you were very
excited about note taker HD.
I was. And for good
reason, it did very well
in 2011, I think at
the end of the year,
Apple shows how well apps
did. And it was in
the top 50 as I
recall, or eight iPad apps.
Wow. That's pretty good. I've
made, I made a real
good living as a programmer,
being an I a, an
iPad developer. I'm still making
money off of it. And
is it done? Oh yeah,
well done. No, you're constantly
have to upgrade it the
last time I upgraded it
was I think in November
and, you know, I've been
busy with some other things
since, so I haven't done
much more work on it.
I have a lot of
partially done things, done, some
other iOS stuff since, but
with iOS seven, if I
have to upgrade it to
do special support for iOS
seven plus it's incompatible, I'll
go back to programming it.
I mean, I've got a
lot of users or use
it, use it every day.
I'm still doing tech support
for it. And I get
$3 and 15 cents after Apple
takes their cut blocks. And
yet, you know, I'll be
on the phone or, you
know, through email, whatever. So
you, you use it all
the time. It's a fundamental
part of your, Well, when
I'm at conferences and stuff,
it's how I take my
notes, you know, but it's,
you know, I, I mean,
I'm mainly coding and stuff,
so I don't need that
much. And actually doing a
lot of video. One thing
that's, that's one of the
interesting things about in mobile,
you, you do video is
the way you show it.
I mean, if you have
to sort of demo a
lot, you don't have, we
don't have tool tips at
this point. The Samsung is
starting to show the ability
to do that on theirs.
But, you know, so when
you do your, your demonstrations
and your videos, people expect
to watch a video, learn
it on the spot and
then be able to use
the application. You have to
learn how to be able
to shoot that in cameras
and good sound and stuff
like that, to be able
to do those. No, you're
certainly still bullish on, on
mobile, right? I mean, you
know, you just recently joined
alpha software as their CTO.
That seems like a, I
don't know. I just assume
that you would be independent.
You'd want to do your
own thing. I know you're
excited about mobile and you're,
you know, you're still, of
course is going to do
note taker HD, but why
start? Why, why join a
company? Well, the company is,
first of all, there were
friends of mine that I've
known for many years who
founded the company and run
it. And I used to
run my business on one
of their older products, way
back when alpha for it
was a product for a
database. It's a database, you
know, like it's a pre
access product. And it was
a real easy to use,
but very powerful system. And
even though I was coding
in C and assembler and
selling my old Brooklyn's demo
program, I did all my
invoicing and, you know, shipping
labels and all that. I
did that without though, plus
it was aimed for somebody
who wanted to get the
job done fast forward to
now. And I was looking,
Hmm, people are using note-taker
HD to fill out intake
forms. If, you know, for
doctors and stuff, you know,
when they, the patients come
in, they would take a
PDF and Mark it up
and, you know, check off
this and that. And then,
then I guess then the
receptionist types in whatever, but
realistic data input is a
big thing. And businesses really
want to use the news,
the tablets and the mobile
devices for business applications of
transactions and data acquisition, just
for reading. And it's not
just a data consumption device.
And I tell them, let's
get into that. And I
like to build a thing
with this, but then I
have to do the backend.
I want to connect to
the database. I want to
have to build a report
generator. Cause sometimes you want
to actually produce reports and
I'm going to have to
do, wow. That's a lot
of work. And then I
saw the guys at alpha,
they have that already. I
said, Oh, you're doing that.
Hmm. And I had already
felt that if you want
to do something, it's got
to run everywhere. So, you
know, if you can do
it with HTML five, that
would be really good. I
had done a lot of
work when I was doing
social calc, which is a
JavaScript spreadsheet a few years
ago. I knew how you
could make some really good
things in JavaScript. The modern
JavaScript with the modern browsers
are even better. So I've
been playing with that with
trying, trying to put my
spreadsheet on a tablet and,
Oh, they're neat. You wise,
you can do, I should
experiment here. And it turned
out that the alpha people,
they had been going the
same direction. They have been
retooling their system that was
web based to be HTML
five based for the mobile
stuff. Cetera. So it's like,
well, you're already doing all
this work. Why don't I
just join you and do
some of the innovation on
the new stuff without having
to build all those things
in the backend. Plus I
don't have to worry about
supporting servers and stuff. So
that's why I did that.
Plus I had been working
alone for a long time.
It was fine to work
with some other people. Is
this co-generation or is it
a, is it a whole
language? And then it generates
HTML. Is that hide the
HTML from you? Yes and
no. They're the, the alpha
way of doing things the
way their style that their
applications always plan is that
you, you develop in a,
in a system that's like
property sheet, sheet based, you
know, like in visual basic,
when you, when you put
in a control, you do
everything by putting all the
properties you say, I want
to be this wide, whatever.
And then if you need
to code something like on
this event, do this, you
can drop into language. What
they do is they have
all the common cases already
built in or one dropdown
lists. So the common cases
are all there, but at
any point you can drop
in and actually code in
CSS, directly code and Java
script directly code in, in
SQL, directly in SQL to
connect to your SQL backend
stuff. Cause they also have
server side stuff. You can
connect in.net languages. If you
want on the server side
or use their automatically created
stuff. And you can go
back and forth between the
two. So they're producing the
JavaScript for the client and
stuff to run on the
server. But at any point
you can look at the
source at any point, you
can use their stuff. And
I like that it gives
you the power, but you
don't have to know it.
So when a lot of
people do who are using
it is they may or
may not know the language
like GHG, like HTML and
JavaScript very well, but they
can get what they need
built. And with a little
bit of help, they, you
know, maybe being a script
kid, even copies and something
from somebody else, they can
get some very powerful things.
So for example, one, one
user, one person who's developing
apps with it is she
does a search engine optimization
as she does that for
others. And she needed a
workflow management system, which she
built in an alpha. And
she used CSS themes that
she got off the web
and whatever, but she wanted
to use Dropbox for her
sharing data with her clients.
So somebody else shoot contacted
who knew ALPA built the
JavaScript for her to integrate
it into Dropbox and what
she could do, all the
other stuff on all the
filtering and the database management
was all done through alpha.
And that that's kinda cool
cause she really isn't a
coder per se, but she
built a whole system out
of it. But she has
some really sophisticated code that
she got from somebody else
that she knows how to
put in. And so that's,
that's an issue. It's a
relatively high level. I mean,
it's, it's for people who
you still have to learn
it. I mean, it's, it's
not like, you know, blogging
with blogger. You could just
use it and it sort
of, it wasn't that much
to learn, right. To learn
Excel or access or any
of the, or you know,
fi People who are used
access. Love it because what
they say is, Oh, access
doesn't do well when it
comes to the web and
access doesn't do well when
it comes to mobile. But
what am I going to
do? I think like X,
I think in terms of
tables, so secret cave, right.
David, what do I do?
And I know VBA, well,
it turns out that, you
know, a lot of the
stuff, if you want, and
an alpha uses a basic
barrier for some of this
stuff, if you want, It
seems like JavaScript and HTML
five have just in the
last six months to a
year reached that point where
we've really got a nice
virtual machine on which we
can build, you know, stuff
like that. Oh yeah. I,
the, there were a couple
things. One is that it's
the virtual machines been good
enough that we can do
incredible things, but they also
CSS got access to the
GPU, the graphics processing unit.
So that they're transforms. So
the smooth things we're used
to, so they can follow
your finger, you know, and
do the morphing from one
thing to another that we're
used to on the mobile
platforms and even on, on
the desktop platforms that help
you keep context that smelled
done in hardware, by CSS
transforms and CSS animation. And
that's really cool. So now
it's powerful enough to be
able to do a lot
of the user interface touches
that you would think could
only be done natively beforehand.
Yeah. So thank God we're
there That, that, that tension
between the native apps and
the HTML based applications kind
of continues to go back
and forth, right. Just as
we think something's not possible
in HTML, we pull it
off. Yes. I mean, that's
the thing is that when
you listen to what some
of the HTML or the
people are building the browser
say, well, you know, I
need it such and such.
So I modified the language.
We, you know, we got
together, we modified the language
and put in this, we
do this faster. So we
got to that as a
feature, you know, it's each
time it's remembering the old
days for Microsoft, people would
say, well, Microsoft does this,
but they can't do that.
And apparently that became the
number one requirement within Microsoft
to build for the next
release, because that's how it
looked from the outside. And
it's the same thing with
these browser developers. And luckily
they're there multiple of them
who work well together. It
looks like I saw an
interview you did with, with
one of them, how they
work well with the competition
and stuff like that and
what they're all like. Yeah.
They all say JavaScript, can't
do it well, we'll show
them. And that's, that's been
cool. But go back to
the thing about the letter
quality printing versus the fact,
or, you know, I'll use
a spreadsheet rather than a
real program done with it.
You know, I'm willing, a
lot of people are willing
to make it not look
as good. I mean, we
use the web. If you
look at how bad the
web looked, when it started
and started taking over compared
to native apps, the web
versus at and T interchange
or AOL or CompuServe, it
didn't look anywhere near as
good, but it got the
job done by regular people.
So that's the same thing
here with, with HTML and
JavaScript and CSS, it gets
the job done. Oh, except
for one thing. And it
gets the job done enough.
And perhaps the native might
be better, but we don't
care because we're more, we
were, we'd rather have the
project done. It's more important
to get it done. The
thing is that even for
Apple, and if you look
on iOS and Android and
oil all over the place,
they use web use a
program thing, which is basically
a little web web browser
inside the app for presenting
text and things, because it's
really hard to do the
things you do with HTML
real easily with text. And
so they punt and they
drop into web views inside
of the applications to be
able to do things so
HTML is even better there.
And they have to admit
it. Yeah. That, that convenience
of a really dynamic generated
user interface on every platform,
Android, iOS, windows phone, they
did, they drop in a
web view and they go,
and you can tell as
a, as a technologist, you
can tell, I don't think
the users know If your
phone gap, a lot of
people were phone gap is
a system that connects the
web view to the outside
in a standard way so
that you can write once
an HTML, JavaScript, and CSS
and deploy that. And it
will run on all sorts
of systems on what's it
called on even blackberries know
windows, phone, and iOS and
Android, and be able to
access hardware, things that haven't
been exposed yet and JavaScript.
And that's the right ones,
right? Run everywhere matters because
of the, bring your own
device. You know, people, they
may want an Android device
or the company, you know,
where they also want it
to be on iOS or
you want so writing in
HTML and Java script means
that you can run on
all sorts of devices. It's
why the iPhone and iPad
were successful in some way
anyways, because you could, it
could run the browser for
browser. You know, they were
able to put a browser
that was just as good
as any other rep. Well,
I think the browser on
an, on a mobile phone,
on a good mobile phone
is almost as good as
a lot of apps Operating
systems. There's Firefox Wes coming
up. That is all operating.
So Dean indeed. Yeah. So
that's why, you know, that's
one reason I was willing
to join alpha B plus
I saw they were going
this way of saying, let's
make the target B this
HTML five. You can build
apps that you'll be able
to just, you know, you
can run standalone NATO on
the machine. You can serve
them up, you know, off
of the server to be
able to get it, which
we need to do anyway,
when you're getting live data
all the time. That rather
than saying, no, we're going
to generate native code and
we're going to have to
follow all the different, all
the different STKs as they
advanced. Cool. Well, we can
learn about all this stuff
up on your blog. You've
talked about why Alpha's important
and what you're doing in
that space and why you
think that bridging the mobile
apps, touch apps and the
web are important and listeners
can check you out at
Dan B on Twitter. And
I would also encourage them
to check out the episode
of this developer's life that
we did with you last
year, which I think was
very well received as well.
Thanks so much for talking
to me today. Well, thank
you very much for the
opportunity. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.